our-our Spink and Sons is especially
well known to all kinds of folk the
first stage in producing the Royal
delicacy is somewhat indelicate anyone
at all squeamish should look away as the
heads are torn off by hand it's the
quickest way every process of Spinks
remains traditional they believe it's
the secret of their success the haddock
are then dry sorted piled up and left
for several hours to absorb some of the
salt this is the natural way to preserve
them no other artificial coloring
preservatives are ever allowed near them
Spinks is the oldest family firm in
arbroath they're now up to their fifth
generation and extremely proud of it for
over 70 years since they moved from our
Millie this has been no livelihood tying
countless millions of havoc in pairs by
the tail when sufficiently salty they're
given a quick rinse in fresh water and
allowed to drip dry
after the grievous bodily harm of be
heading there now handled with great
respect it's essential they won't fall
off the rails during the smoking then
the far is allowed to roar up only the
best season hardwoods are burned blocks
of oak or beechwood produce the right
flavor
and now they're ready for the curing 20
pairs to each rack the glowing embers of
the far are flattened out to reduce the
flames so that once covered they'll give
off the maximum amount of smoke without
flaring up and burning fish all smokers
will tell you how simple the process is
at the same time obviously withholding
all the important secret methods
managing director Roberts pink is no
exception this smokey was invented as a
curing process and the bygone days not
another method of preserving fish much
like salting of cord or pickling just
another means of prolonging the life of
the fish it's very proper in the Central
Scotland area and becoming appealing to
our way they feel because of its
speciality no we are that people are
becoming more adventures with fish and
like to try new products new quality
products then we're finding a ready
market and really does the smokey
industry in arbroath is booming if you
want to call that yes it will enough you
could say business is roaring like a
house on fire it's all to do with the
new awareness of naturally prepared
foods as more and more people worry
about what they're eating the simplest
natural products are being rediscovered
by this growing market and Barbara's
Smokies are as pure and perfect as
anyone could wish for
they're lifted with the greatest care
because their tails are now brittle and
can easily snap any fish which falls
into the far is useless for the market
though local people know that they're
often the tastiest of all the best pears
are sent off to a market that's
extending further and further from our
growth the Queen Mother isn't the only
Londoner who enjoys Smokies every week
Spink sell them to the big stores like
Selfridges and Harrods
once smoked they're easily transported
almost anywhere in the world and there's
no end the marvelous things that can be
done with them our growth has over 20
producers of Smokies the fit of the tune
is virtually a gigantic fish restaurant
but the carriage room restaurant in the
meadow bank in has developed some
ingenious and delicious recipes in its
own kitchen first Philip smoky and then
add lashings of imagination the
succulents of the flesh allows great
gastronomic things to happen for the
gourmet like canopies of smoky and prawn
grew yay shortbreads or our brothe smoky
pate with Philadelphia Cream Cheese
smoky crepes with bechamel sauce and
their move maybe lightly grilled smoky
with parsley butter or smoked salmon
with smoky mousseline filling there's
really no end to what can be done with
them but first find your smoky another
small producer is john ness who still
uses the barrel method similar to the
original barrels which were dug into the
beach of arc mithi
all claim to use the oldest techniques
but no one knows the true origins of the
smoky in Norway fish cured in an
identical fashion and many local names
likes pink swanky and Cargill and Norse
so smokers were probably wants the
sustenance of the invading Vikings the
Arbroath smoky is an historic food which
they say guarantees a long healthy and
happy life
they're marvelous to see these old
crafts going on or being revived even
now then I've got a bloater and I've got
a smoky and I'm going to taste them I
know that you can't share in this you'll
have to rely on what I say about it but
here first of all is the bloater hmm
it's just like I remember the bloat is
to be all those years ago when I first
remember bloaters now it's open the
smokey there he is it's a whiter flesh
all together and you can't art them up
as Eddie's dead on the film but this is
plain straightforward there's great
similarity but i think the smoky is
slightly drier and having been brought
up on bloaters I really think I'll have
to remain loyal to them the yarmouth
bloater takes a bit of beating